this menorah menorah him in al
hamdulillah he not meadow who and Serena
who Anastasio
when I audible on him inshallah
reinforced in a moment a Yeti on hi Nina
Mahadev on our Moodle Allah o my youth
will hopefully AHA da da da da la ilaha
illallah wahdahu la sharika de wash
idoney muhammadan abduhu wa rasuluh
sallallahu alayhi wa ala aalihi wa
sahbihi was seldom at the steam in
kathira and my bad
my dear brothers and sisters salaam
aleikum wa rahmatullah wa barakato so
within light under the plan is I want to
get back into study Imam no he's fully
hadith and for those of you that are
attending the previous session we
covered hadith one two three and five so
I thought before we get into hadeeth
number four wanna do you know a recap of
the hadith that we were taking so I
thought we'd spend briefly about 10
minutes on each hadith and then we can
open up the floor for Q&A bit in the hi
Donna
so the first hadith that Imam no your
ahem oh Allah he starts off his 40
hadith with is the hadith of I'm gonna
block a table the Elohim that he
narrates from The Messenger of Allah so
Allah Allah will send them that all
actions are by intentions and that every
man shall have that which he intends so
this is the famous a hadith of
intentions that everyone is familiar
with now why did he mama know your AHIMA
Allah begin with this hadith
why did he mama now Ibrahim Allah begin
with this hadith and there are several
reasons why these scholars mentioned
that Imam inoa rahim allah began with
this hadith
number one it was following the
tradition of the people of the past
tradition of the people of the pas
there was a famous scholar by the name
of Abdul Rahman the Buddha Maddy he said
that if I was to ever write a book and
whoever is to ever write a book let him
begin with this hadith let him begin
with this hadith which leads us into
reason number two why we should someone
begin with this hadith and that is that
begin with this hadith and that is tha
the most important affair for the
believer is
intention there's nothing more important
intention there's nothing more importan
for the believer than his intention and
that each and every one of us you know
every minute of our lives the righteous
of us and the wicked of us we need to
remind ourselves of our intention
because the difference between
righteousness and wickedness is the
intention it's not necessarily the
action with an of itself
sometimes a righteous action can become
wicked through the intention and
sometimes even the wicked action can
become righteous through the intention
so who can give me an example of a
wicked action becoming righteous through
the intention and I'll give you a hint
the intention and I'll give you a hin
this is something that someone discussed
in the one on my conference and it
in the one on my conference and i
wasn't me the MC what did the MC do with
Skeen guy it wasn't the MC was an actual
speaker one of the speakers talked about
speaker one of the speakers talked abou
this go ahead fantastic who did what did
he say and who what was he talking about
he say and who what was he talking abou
excellent so do you remember any of the
bad actions that were done but were
actually considered righteous because of
the intention the fishing-boat think
okay okay remind of what was it killing
the young boy so those are all examples
that win of themselves you look at them
and you're like why would someone do
these actions but in reality the
intention behind it was righteous and
that is how wicked actions can sometimes
become righteous through their intention
behind them obviously unless - aldehyde
inspired Haddad to do those actions and
that's why they became righteous now
looking at the exact opposite as well
that sometimes a person will do a
righteous action and through an evil
intention even a righteous action will
become wicked and this is the essence of
riah the essence of showing off what
riah the essence of showing off wha
you're doing a righteous action but the
intention behind it is to show off the
intention behind it is to show off
reason number three why I'm a man oh
you're a him oh Allah he began with this
hadith and that is that he wanted to
emulate the way of enamel Bukhari now
for those of you that remember this
hadith Curly Imam al bukhari rahim allah
he had a particular reason to select
he had a particular reason to selec
this hadith
and the reason why i'm al-bukhari
selected this hadith and placed it as
the very first hadith under the chapter
of Revelation was because of the Assad
of the hadith the chain of narration of
this hadith so when you look at the
chain of narration of head of this
hadith in particular you'll notice that
hadith in particular you'll notice tha
all the narrators of this hadith were
from the lines of Revelation they were
either from Medina or from Makkah or
some of them were even from both of them
now this is for like a big price I'll
give 50 dollars to the individual that
give 50 dollars to the individual tha
remembers the chain of narration on
whatever Allahu Akbar so we have the
first two and there we go we're missing
about four other people in between
anyone remember any names at all
$50 men sorry no obviously not I wanted
from memory
what good is reading from notes even our
good guess very good guess no I'll give
you a hint I'll give you a hint he was
the servant of all malavika top if
anyone remembers if Abu Hafs is Konya so
house Hafsa was his daughter no come on
let me remind you big night Allah and
let's try to memorize this name because
if you were to ever memorize one it's
not in your life let it be this one
because of what a beautiful this night
because of what a beautiful this nigh
it is in terms of its significance so
I'm gonna khattab radhi'allahu anhu he
narrates this hadith - aleykum edna
huacas and only one person heard this
hadith from America table it was I'll
come Abner Walker's unlikely he was from
Medina from El Camino ACCA's only one
person heard this hadith and that was
Muhammad Ibrahim attaining Hamad Bin
Ibrahim at a me who was also from Medina
then from Muhammad Ibrahim a teeny also
only one person heard this hadith who
was the I hear blue side al ansari yahia
blue side al ansari and he too was only
I was from Medina and it is from via
hebrew saeed al ansari
that is split up into like hundreds so
you have no saeed al ansari he taught it
you have no saeed al ansari he taught i
to hundreds of people and that is when
this hadith actually became famous and
renowned in the Muslim lands so from a
Hebrew
Dalen sorry you had Sofia nabina
saffiano voodoo marina heard this Heidi
from yeah yeah him decided on Saudi and
Saffiano Vienna was from both Medina and
Mecca he resided in both lands and then
from Saffiano marina it goes to a
scholar who was the teacher in the imam
bukhari by the name of al Hamadi
and Hammadi so you'll find this name a
lot inside Sahil Bukhari and from a D
and alpha made his real name was
Abdullah Abdullah Abdullah Hypno's Abed
not to be confused with the famous
sahabi not to be confused with the
famous Sahabi
and then Imam al bukhari Rahim hala
narrates this hadith from and Hammadi
and also narrates from several other
teachers but Imam Abu Haider Rahim ojala
he uses this particular narration under
the chapter of revelation to give
significance to this and this shows you
the genius of Imam Bukhari and also the
diligence of amount of Bukhari in being
able to care to you know learn this
hadith from so many teachers yet find
the chain of narration that would be
significant to go under the chapter of
revelation to go under the chapter of
Revelation does anyone need me to repeat
Revelation does anyone need me to repea
any of the names
go ahead so I'll come have no occurs to
Mohammed bin Ibrahim a teeny to Mohammed
bin in behemot a me who was from medina
and then from Muhammad Ibrahim at a me
to your hypno side a long sorry anyone
else is repeating
ok let's move on then we move on to a
second point of interest in this hadith
is that why didn't mom al-bukhari
r-rahim o Allah choose to narrate from a
lady over here
why did Amanda Bacardi choose to narrate
from a lady and the reason why a man
would party chose to narrate the very
first hadith inside Sahel Bukhari from
Mohammed II was the fact that the
prophet salallahu alaihe salam animale
coronaries this later on his in his life
he said give preference to the caleche
and put the Quraysh board so the very
first hadith that imam bukhari rahim
allah wanted to mention inside Sahel
Bukhari was implementing one of the
cernan of the messenger of allah some
allaha wa seller which was to put the
college forward and abdullah bin zu
and Hammadi was from the caleche was
from the caleche so they say that imam
menorah he Mahalo wanted to fulfill
these exact same things as imam al
bukhari in terms of showing the
greatness of the lines of Revelation
showing the greatness of Revelation
itself and putting the caleche board and
that is why Amano Ibrahim ojala mentions
this hadith why Imam Imam noe mentions
this hadith now in terms of the hadith
itself we said that the reason why the
messenger of allah sallallahu alayhi wa
sallam mentioned this hadith and even
though the story is not authentically
proven meaning that he is not for it is
not authentically proven it is very
common amongst the narrator's of hadith
that one day as when they are asked you
know why did the messenger of allah saw
shannon mentioned the hadith of Liat he
said there was an individual that wanted
to marry a woman and this woman put the
condition that in order for her to have
the marriage proposal accepted this man
would have to accept her proposal and
migrated to her land and would have to
migrate to her land and thus the
messenger of allah salallahu alaihe said
them he narrated this hadith that the
reason for his migration to Medina was
not for the sake of Hejira with an of
itself but rather it was for the sake of
marrying the hand of a woman where has
had this individual migrated for the
sake of the edge Allah his reward would
have been much much greater but in such
a situation where he migrated for the
sake of a woman this is something which
is inherently permissible and that was
something which was allowed let us
conclude our discussion on this hadith
by talking about two things number one
the dangers of having an unrighteous
intention and number two how does one go
about detaining sincerity in their
actions how does one go about attaining
sincerity in their actions so number one
in terms of the dangers of not having a
righteous intention it is the rejection
of the action by Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
so you can imagine that you know you
strive really hard to do these great
strive really hard to do these grea
actions that whatever you do perhaps in
terms of memorizing the Quran quarter
out perhaps in terms of waking up 4:00
p.m. when late perhaps in giving sadaqa
all of these actions that an individual
will struggle with if a person is
have a righteous intention behind it
have a righteous intention behind i
then this action will not be accepted by
Allah subhana WA Ta'ala so its absence
is as good as its press presence is as
good as its absence is as if you didn't
good as its absence is as if you didn'
do it at all
number two is that allah subhana wa
ta'ala will punish for those actions
there are acts of a bad day within of
themselves so if in the act is an act of
a by the wouldn't of itself and it's
done for other than the sake of allah
subhana wa ta'ala then this is something
that Allah subhana WA Ta'ala will
actually punish so what is something
that is inherently an act of a bada that
that is inherently an act of a bada tha
should be done only for the sake of
allah subhanho wa taala
so for exaggerated go ahead you can give
an example if you like there's no
example a salat
example a sala
so you do this salah for other than the
sake of allah subhana wa ta'ala
this becomes an act of wind of
itself not just via the difference
between shared Kendriya over here is
that one element of the Salah may be
done for other than the sake of Allah
and that element will not be accepted
but if the whole Salah is done for
someone other than Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala that is when it becomes an active
shift so you're directing your prayer to
other than Allah subhana WA Ta'ala and
this is when Allah Subhan Allah Ta'ala
will punish for that to action this is
when allah subhana wa ta'ala will punish
for that action the third danger of
doing actions for other than the sake of
allah subhana wa ta'ala is that allah
subhana wa ta'ala will caused this
person to be humiliated in this life and
the next the messenger of allah
salallahu alaihe salam he mentions that
salallahu alaihe salam he mentions tha
the first three people to be judged and
thrown into the Hellfire on their faces
are people who would we would generally
assume and see to be righteous people
they are the scholar and the reciter
they are the philanthropist the one that
they are the philanthropist the one tha
gives charity and he is the one and the
third one is the one that goes out to
fight in the way of allah subhanahu
wata'ala and all three of them when they
did their actions it wasn't purely for
the sake of allah subhana wa ta'ala but
the sake of allah subhana wa ta'ala bu
rather it was for the sake that people
would praise them instead so unless high
note Allah caused them to be humiliated
in the Hereafter allah subhanaw taala
caused them to be humiliated in the here
after can anyone think of any other
things that would be negative
repercussions
of having an impure intention what is
another repercussions go ahead what are
you thinking no so what I'm thinking is
what is the negative repercussions that
what is the negative repercussions tha
we mentioned the dangers of having an
evil intention sorry I explained that
evil intention sorry I explained tha
what does that mean fine tastic is a
very good point so that when is when an
action is done for the sake of Allah
subhana wa ta'ala you'll find yourself
more naturally motivated you want to
need external motivation
whereas when an action is done for a
reason for other than the sake of Allah
for a worldly reason then the motivation
will naturally disappear because once
you attain that worldly motivation the
motivation to continue and to persist
motivation to continue and to persis
will no longer be there very good point
will no longer be there very good poin
it is like a look at anything else that
it is like a look at anything else tha
someone can think of another danger or
repercussions of doing actions for other
than the sake of allah subhanaw taala
go ahead in what sense how will you get
go ahead in what sense how will you ge
my stuff
this one second let him finish and Shama
how will you get my stuff
he gives you money or he gives you his
daughter and you are okay that's very
good so in terms of you're setting
yourself up for disappointment because
everyone will not have what the intent
everyone will not have what the inten
was when you do something for the sake
of allah subhana wa ta'ala you're
guaranteed even if you don't get what
guaranteed even if you don't get wha
you want you're guaranteed to get the
reward from it whereas when it comes to
having your attention for other than the
sake of allah i knowit's Allah if you
don't get what you're intending then
you're not getting any reward from allah
subhanho wa taala and as well as you
didn't get what you intended very good
I saw someone also had to hand up go
ahead you want to be content with what
ahead you want to be content with wha
you do explain that what does that mean
I hope no one's tried that into speaking
from experience III that's a I'm
assuming that's possibly true I'm
assuming that's possibly true anyone
else the last last one go ahead okay why
is everything coming back to women and
money okay okay so I guess that's sort
money okay okay so I guess that's sor
of related I guess that's sort of
related and shall occur right let's move
on to so now how does the person
actually attain sincerity how does a
person actually entertain sincerity one
thing that's important to mention is
that in terms of incentives for having
sincerity if you look at the opposite of
all of the things we mentioned those are
all incentives for why we should have
insanity sincerity so that Allah will
accept the action a lesser penalty Allah
will reward the action that even if you
don't get what you want you will still
get reward from allah subhana wa ta'ala
Allah Spanos honor will honor the person
that has a sincere intention so all of
those are the incentives as to why you
should be sincere so now we come up to
the the concept of how does a person
attain sincerity how does a person
attain sincerity and there's three
things that I'd like to mention at this
time number one is the importance of
remembering death this the processer
down why he encourages us to frequently
remember death and to the frequent the
graveyards of the Muslims so as to
remind ourselves that anything that you
chase of this dunya is going to remain
in this dunya it will not transcend into
the next life but anything that you put
the next life but anything that you pu
forth for the sake of the arc or
anything that you do for the sake of
allah subhana wa ta'ala then that is
what will carry on with you to the next
what will carry on with you to the nex
life and that is something to remember
related to this very point is also the
element of punishment that those things
that weren't for the sake of Allah then
obviously will be punished in the grave
and those things that are for the sake
of Allah then they will obviously be
rewarded in the grave
number two is constantly checking your
heart you know this is something that
heart you know this is something tha
we're not reminded of enough but what is
our hearts really longed for
no one knows the answer to this except
no one knows the answer to this excep
for us ourselves and this is something
that we constantly need to monitor
constantly need to check that the
actions that we're doing who are we
doing them for right are we doing it for
other than the sake of Allah or is it
other than the sake of Allah or is i
purely for the sake of allah subhana wa
ta'ala and this is like the trap of
Shaitaan where it'll come in where
sometimes you're you're thinking that
sometimes you're you're thinking tha
you're doing it for the sake of Allah
but when you analyze it and you you know
scrutinize the state of your heart you
realize that the actions that you're
doing are for other than the sake of
allah subhanho wa taala
and one of the clearest ways to
understand this concept is if you're not
understand this concept is if you're no
content with your ebody so for example
you know a slave of allah a Muslim he's
doing his worship for allah subhana wa
ta'ala he's doing all of these righteous
deeds but he's feeling completely burnt
deeds but he's feeling completely burn
out or he's not feeling happy at the end
of doing all of these righteous deeds
then even though he may think he's doing
them for the sake of Allah subhanAllah
sana in reality that is an indication
that he's not doing them for the sake of
allah subhana wa ta'ala the third and
last thing i'll mention is that how do
you actually keep track of your
sincerity how do you actually keep track
of your sincerity and I find it very
very interesting when you finally look
at particular narrations of our
predecessors that they used to say that
predecessors that they used to say tha
if I knew I only had one more day to
live I would change nothing from my life
you know when I hear such statements I
think to myself subhanAllah
how does a person reach that level where
they're content to meet Allah span
without that if they were to die in that
without that if they were to die in tha
state there would be contented meeting
Allah subhana wa ta'ala and the scholars
comment on these narrations by saying
the way they reached such a level is
that they made sure that their private
lives were better than their public
lives and this is the ultimate
indication of sincerity the ultimate
indication of sincerity is when your
private life is better than your public
life so you pray more in private you
read more Quran in private you wake up
for more qiyamah lain in private and all
the things that you do in public are
just a small element of your greater
life of worship and you do much much
more in your private life and this is
why I would suggest that you know do is
this as an exercise it's a real you know
eye-opening exercise but just take one
day of your life take one day of your
life and write down all the good deeds
that you do that
that you do tha
des how many of those deeds are in
public and how many of them are in
private and you'll get like a rude
awakening at subhanallah nine tenths of
re vada where the most part is a public
display of our actions whereas one-tenth
if we're fortunate might be you know
something that is done in private
something that is done in secret that no
one else knows about except for allah
subhanahu wata'ala and as a sub point to
this that even before you do this
exercising you get this rude awakening
make it a point make it a habit for
yourself that in your daily life you
have an element of a bada that no one
else knows about no one else knows about
else knows about no one else knows abou
it except for you and Allah subhana WA
Ta'ala so on that day when you meet
Ta'ala so on that day when you mee
allah subhanaw taala and allah subhanaw
taala asks you you know what are you
putting forward you have this one deed
that you did consistently that no one
else knows about except for you and
Allah subhanAllah Sahana and this deed
it doesn't have to be grandiose it
it doesn't have to be grandiose i
doesn't have to be big it can just be
something small so the act of you know
saying you're mourning a scar and no one
else knows about it except for you and
allah subhanho wa taala so you do it in
private or you make it a habit that you
know each and every single day you're
going to try to give a small amount of
setup but even literally if it's just
setup but even literally if it's jus
like a dollar or like fifty cents you
try to give it each and every single day
in such a way that no one else knows
about it except for you and allah
subhana wa ta'ala or you make it a point
subhana wa ta'ala or you make it a poin
that you're going to help one person
carry their bag or smile in their face
or whatever you can do a small deed that
or whatever you can do a small deed tha
is only between you and Allah Subhanahu
Watts Anna and that is one of the best
Watts Anna and that is one of the bes
ways to build sincerity and then
obviously it doesn't need to be
mentioned but one of the things that
mentioned but one of the things tha
will help you retain your sincerity the
most is reading the chapters of
sincerity and the chapters of Riya
inside the books of hadith so for
example you open up or the other Sunday
and you read the chapter of sincerity in
a way out of Santa Fe it is one of the
best ways to build your sincerity as
well it is one of the best ways to build
your sincerity as well a last point that
your sincerity as well a last point tha
I'll mention about this hadith is about
I'll mention about this hadith is abou
the Snyder of the hadith is about the
Snyder of the sadist so when we talk
about the different levels of narrator's
a hadith that is narrated by so many
people that it couldn't have been
fabricated and nothing
interviewee being introduced into this
hadith this is no excuse me as a
motivator hadith it is known as a
motivator hadith and the opposite end of
the spectrum of a motivator hadith is an
Ahad hadith is an ahead hadith and I
heard hadith are divided into three
categories
I had hadith are divided into three
categories you have mush or you have
Aziz and you have a good Eid and you
have Gareeb let me briefly explain these
three categories of hadith so the way I
want you to understand this is looking
at the different levels of generations
so you have the prophets of allah wahda
who said them that is going to be the
origin of each and every single hadith
except for the hadith Qudsi so he's
going to be the origin point he's not
going to be the origin point he's no
what we're referring to over here what
what we're referring to over here wha
were referring to is after the messenger
of allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam so
we're talking about the generation of
the companions then we're talking about
the companions then we're talking abou
the generation of the tabi I mean the
successors and then we talk about the
generation of the bathtub I mean the
successors of the successors so these
are the generations that were referring
to so when you look at an actual hadith
you will find that the hadith will have
a combination of these generations so
you will have a Sahabi who are narrated
as a general flow will be a Sahabi
narrating it to a successor who will
narrate to the successor of these
successors who will narrate it to one of
the famous imams of hadith now looking
at to the what these three terms mean
Gareeb aziz and mush or Gareeb means
that the minimal level at any one point
that the minimal level at any one poin
of the hadith is only one person is only
one person and this is the hadith of in
the man Armando Benitez meaning that if
you look at the first three stages of
narration from America table so at the
stage of the Sahaba there's only one
person I will come up Noah cause he was
also only one person who heard it at
also only one person who heard it a
that stage Mohammed Ibrahim at AMI
yah hebrew saeed al ansari all of them
are only considered one person in each
stage so each level of narration so
therefore this hadith would be
considered running this hadith would be
considered Gareeb when you look at a
hadith which is Aziz and Aziz means the
minimum
where you have at each level is to the
minimal level you have at each number is
2 and then masseur is that the minimal
level that you have is 3 the minimal
level that you have is 3 and then
generally anything beyond 3 scholars
would look at sometimes they would refer
to it as Mata wata
and sometimes they would just refer to
it as I had without going into specific
categorization and the term Mata water
it doesn't have a specific number
sometimes it could be four sometimes it
sometimes it could be four sometimes i
could be 10 there wasn't a specific
number but it was a number that made a
person to feel certain then look it is
not possible for all of these people to
get together they fabricated a lie
against the messenger of allah
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam so who can
tell me what to these three categories
of a hadith are and what are the
difference between the three go ahead
Aziz Gareeb my sure fantastic and what
Aziz Gareeb my sure fantastic and wha
does each one mean fantastic yeah
fantastic and these three categories
fall under which category I had
fantastic so when you have matzah water
and you have I had motor waters only one
category and aahed is divided into three
and those are the three categories that
and those are the three categories tha
it is divided under and this is one of
the major differences between the hadith
of the Prophet SAW are salam and between
the quran so even though it's the exact
the quran so even though it's the exac
same people that are preserving both
sources the quran is preserved by these
people the hadith is preserved by these
people but the difference between the
two is that the Quran is preserved in
motiroti format whereas the hadith for
the vast majority of it I would say even
close to 95 percent of it is preserved
in a HUD format and that is the
difference between the two now does this
have any impact in terms of our al Qaeda
on terms of our acceptance and
implementation of these hadith no it
implementation of these hadith no i
doesn't as long as the hadith is proven
to be authentic then whether it is I had
Ozzie
studied any of that we were still
implemented and act upon it and believe
in it as long as it's proven to be
authentic now we move on to hadith
number two
hadith number two is the hadith of Gd
hadith hadith of Japan tastic Jessica
that's a very good point so reflecting
on your intentions before the act during
the act and after the act very good
point this goes back to a question in
Oso Luke and it's a very detailed and
complex answer I'll give you a summary
of it the summary of it is if a person
leaves the fold of Islam then any action
that was accepted during the state of
Islam if they were to come back to Islam
it would become accepted again however
if they died in a state of other than
Islam then that action would not be
accepted so that's the case of a person
who leaves Islam and comes back to Islam
now let's go into scenario number two
where a person he doesn't leave the
state of Islam but he loses like a level
of Iman and that's what happens with
like Adia and stuff like that for this
individual we say that the action is
lost forever
that action cannot we cannot come back
and he has to redo that action and that
and he has to redo that action and tha
is the only way it will ever be accepted
from him
so once the action is lost by a person
in the state of Islam then there's no
coming back from it that makes sense
okay well since we want to hadith number
two hadith number two is known as the
hadith of Jibril and the reason why it
hadith of Jibril and the reason why i
is called the hadith of Jeanine is
because gibreel came to the messenger of
allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam and he
asked him a series of questions he asked
him a series of questions the first
him a series of questions the firs
three of them are related to direct
three of them are related to direc
elements of faith Islam Iman and
and then the last of them is about the
signs of the hour the last of them is
about the signs of the hour so in terms
of the elements of Islam we actually
discussed this in detail in the third
hadith so we're going to skip over that
hadith so we're going to skip over tha
part now moving on to the concept of
Iman there's a general foundation that
Iman there's a general foundation tha
will establish with the principle of
Iman and that is that when Iman and
Islam are mentioned together in the
Quran then they will have a different
Quran then they will have a differen
meaning however if they're mentioned
individually inside of the Quran and the
Sunnah then they will be synonymous in
their meaning so how like what is that
their meaning so how like what is tha
what exactly does that mean the general
meaning of Islam is to submit to allah
subhana wa ta'ala anyone who submits to
allah subhanho wa taala
and agrees to abide by the five
principles this is what is known as
Islam and in order to become a Muslim
part of the very first statement of the
Shahada is to actually believe in the
six articles of faith at the same time
is to actually believe in the six
articles of faith at the same time if
you don't believe in the five pillars
and you don't believe in the six
articles of faith then your Islam can
not be valid your Islam can not be valid
so in the Quran when you find the term
Islam or you find the term Muslim by
itself this is what it in that and Amman
will refer to the same thing so Islam by
itself in mind by itself movement by
itself Muslim by itself all of it will
mean the same thing if they are
mentioned individually if they are
mentioned mentioned individually however
if there mentions together in the same
sentence or in the same construct then
they will have individual meanings then
they will have individual meanings as we
see in this very hadith as you see in
this very hadith that Islam and Iman are
mentioned together and therefore they
will have different meanings so a man
when it is mentioned together with Islam
will be the higher of the two it will be
the higher of the two now what exactly
does it mean to be a movement and what
does it mean to be a movement and wha
exactly does it mean to be a Muslim a
Muslim is an individual that he does his
absolute basics and from time to time
will fall into
of the major since from time to time
we'll fall into some of the major since
this is the level of Islam the level of
Iman is that this individual not only
will he do his basics but he's going to
stay away from falling into the major
sins and when an individual can free
himself from the major sins altogether
this is when he achieves the level of
Eman and this is the person who we will
call a mock min this is a person that we
will call a movement and the level of a
son as I mentioned in this hadith that
son as I mentioned in this hadith tha
is a level where a person worships Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala to such a degree as
though Allah subhana WA Ta'ala is
watching him and what's important to
understand about the level of a son this
is almost like a pinnacle almost like a
pinnacle so I want you to imagine as if
your faith was a mountain right if your
faith is a mountain does anyone actually
reside on top of a mountain in his
journey no they don't
journey no they don'
so it is a state that can be achieved in
certain elements of your life and you
will want to continue aiming for that
will want to continue aiming for tha
achievement so that your Eman constantly
goes higher but in reality no one lives
in a state of a son in reality no one
lives in a state of a son the highest
lives in a state of a son the highes
level of consistent Eman that you can
live in is in a state of Eman that you
can fulfill your basics stay away from
the major sins but staying away from
minor sins is not possible for any human
being there's not a single human being
that comes into existence except that he
would have committed some of the minor
since that no one will escape from it
since that no one will escape from i
and that is an important understanding
between these three levels of faith
between Islam Iman and yes and then he
asked the messenger of allah salallahu
sena about one is the day of judgment
sena about one is the day of judgmen
and the prophet sallallaahu and they
were Salam responds that the questioner
knows just as much as the one that is
questioned meaning that this is
something exclusive for Allah Subhanahu
WA Ta'ala there are two important points
to derive from this point of the
discussion the two important points are
number one is that the the knowledge of
the prophet salallahu alaihe salam was
limited the knowledge of the prophets
are sallam was limit
are sallam was limi
it and why is that important it's
important because you will find certain
groups that attribute unlimited
knowledge to the messenger of allah
sallallahu on your seller they will say
that the messenger of allah salallahu
alayhi wa sallam has knowledge of the
unseen the past the present and the
future and you know other than that and
obviously this is not befitting of the
messenger of allah salah salem as this
is something exclusive to allah
subhanahu wa'ta'ala
him itself then number two is the
messenger of allah salallahu alaihe
salam is teaching us a very very
important point about character and a
Halak over here and that is when an
individual should feel comfortable by
saying I do not know and allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala knows best that as a human
being even if you are a prophet from the
prophets of allah subhana wa ta'ala
you're not required to know everything
in life and you should feel comfortable
by saying look i don't know the answer
to this and allah subhanho wa taala
knows best
knows bes
so the process of them is teaching us a
lesson and humility that even the
greatest of prophets felt no shame and
felt no shyness in saying that allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala knows best
subhanahu wa ta'ala knows bes
i was reading something very interesting
the other day this is about the Futaba
of imam muhammad or AHIMA hala the Fatah
WA of imam muhammad al rahim o Allah and
I can't remember who the narrator of
this narration was but he says that I
went through the Fatah WA of Imam
Muhammad Allah he Mahalo and I found
that there are over 10 different
that there are over 10 differen
statements that Imam Muhammad orihime
Allah used to use for saying I don't
Allah used to use for saying I don'
know ten different statements that Imam
Muhammad used to use for saying I don't
Muhammad used to use for saying I don'
know and these were the vast majority of
his answers these were the vast majority
of his answers so those are two
significant points number one that the
wide variety of ways of saying I don't
wide variety of ways of saying I don'
know in the Arabic language and then
number two is that even someone like the
likes of Imam Muhammad honor him o Allah
you know hey what's the word I'm looking
for and iconic figure in his times
meaning he was known as the Imam of a
listener wa l-jama'a
in his times if someone like him can
feel comfortable by saying I don't know
then you know where are we like the vast
then you know where are we like the vas
majority of our knowledge comes from
like YouTube and from Google and like
Wikipedia and stuff so where are we in
terms of answering our questions so
we have more rights to say I don't know
and remaining quiet then the great Imams
of the past and even more so to the
messenger of allah sallallahu alayhi wa
sallam so those are two important
sallam so those are two importan
lessons then the third lesson is derived
from the question of gibreel himself so
gibreel goes on to say fine if you can't
gibreel goes on to say fine if you can'
tell me when the day of judgement is
then at least tell me what some of its
signs are the significance of jibraíeel
asking for the signs of the Day of
Judgment it wasn't so that the people
become paranoid and they start looking
at hey look this is another sign of the
Day of Judgment pre Amma is close the
reasoning behind that was so that people
would prepare for that today people
would prepare for that today a man came
to the Messenger of Allah salah salem
and he asked him all Messenger of Allah
when is the hour the messenger of allah
star Salim responded by saying while men
are dead tell AHA that what have you
prepared for that day and this is the
genuine question that we all need to ask
ourselves you know each and every single
day that we are alive should pose that
day that we are alive should pose tha
question that this day that I am Alive
whatever I put forth for my meeting with
allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala
that we need to have this contribution
that we're putting for that today you
know this is sort of like you know it's
like tax season right now if you ever
try to get like an appointment at your
bank right now it's impossible like to
meet anyone from your bank you're trying
to meet someone they're not gonna give
you the appointment right now so I was
trying to get an appointment with the
blank a couple of weeks back and I was
like look what's the next available
appointment they're like you can come
and do standby you might get someone but
and do standby you might get someone bu
if you want you know a set appointment
if you want you know a set appointmen
it'll be like three weeks from now so I
asked them you know why is it so busy
right now and they're like it's RSP
season right now everyone's trying to
you know cash in where there are ESPYs
and make sure that the investments are
ready and I had like a really serious
reflection at that time subhanAllah I
was like you know all this is temporary
that you know stock market might crash
you know the housing bubble crashes
something happens all of it is lost
something happens all of it is los
right and people are gonna cry over all
their investments and I'm not against
their investments and I'm not agains
investments I think as Muslims we need
to have a financial aptitude in terms of
our investments but what I'm talking
about is when we focus so much in
investing in this dunya we forget about
investing in this dunya we forget abou
investing in the Acula
and when you look at your investment
and when you look at your investmen
with allah subhanallah sad on the
contrary
that you make towards meeting Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala nothing will ever be
lost from Allah subhana WA Ta'ala sent
lost from Allah subhana WA Ta'ala sen
meaning that there will be no financial
crisis from Allah sand
there will be no housing bubble from
Allah's and there will be no market
Allah's and there will be no marke
manipulation from Allah sent but rather
whatever you put forth with allah
subhana wa ta'ala not only this Allah
protect it for you but it's multiplied
in terms of its good deeds and if
there's any shortcomings its from the
investors site it's not in the the thing
that you invested in at that time so
that's something I wanted to share with
you that you know that prepare meant for
the day of judgment as a reflection of
that wooden of itself that each and
every single day it's a conscious
question that you know on this day what
question that you know on this day wha
have I prepared to put forth for my
meeting with Allah Subhanahu WA Ta'ala
and then the Prophet saws Salam he goes
on to mention some of the signs of the
Day of Judgment deposits and mentions
when the bedouin men will be competing
with one another to build the highest
with one another to build the highes
buildings and obviously this is
something that we see in our times
already
you look at you know the boards Khalifa
and the Emirates you look at the face
earlier towers in Riyadh literally you
know these people were Bedouin people
you know they you were camel herders you
know 60 70 years ago and now unless my
notes Allah bless them with money and
that prophecy is coming true that
that prophecy is coming true tha
literally they are competing with one
another to build the tallest building
why you know Allah knows best they want
why you know Allah knows best they wan
to show off their money I don't know
what it is but again that prophecy is
coming true the second thing the
messenger of allah salallahu alaihe sena
mentions antenna dilemma to rob but aha
that a slave woman will give birth to
her master a slave woman will give birth
to her master and there were multiple
interpretations in terms of what this
actually meant one interpretation was
that children will become extremely
disobedient towards their parents a
second interpretation was that slavery
will become abolished and that the free
people the free children will be free
but the parents will remain in a state
of slavery and their multiple other
interpretations that are mentioned for
this as well and then the hadith
concludes with the prophets of Allah
Allah will sell them telling the people
that do you know who this
once they said we do not know a line
this messenger no vest and the
prophetess Adam said that this was G
believe who came to teach you your
religion this was ghibli that came to
teach you your religion and the france
of salem teaches us very something
something very significant and important
something very significant and importan
over here that the teacher is not just
over here that the teacher is not jus
the one who does the speaking but the
teacher is also the one that asks the
intelligent questions the teacher is
also the one that asks the intelligent
also the one that asks the intelligen
questions and this is something that's
lost in our times that a lot of the
times really only ask questions for the
sake of benefitting ourselves but the
sign of a true genuine you know smart
sign of a true genuine you know smar
intelligent person and that he will ask
those questions that are of benefit to
the masses that'll benefit to the masses
that the Sahaba of the ilaha on whom
they needed to know the difference
between Islam Eman and Hassan they
needed to know about preparing for the
day of judgment and this is what Janine
anis Saddam came with then the third
hadith and we'll try to do these quickly
billahi tada this is the third hadith
was that islam is built upon five
pillars the third hadith is about Islam
being built upon the five pillars and
the five pillars over here they're
called pillars because without the
existence of them once Islam does not
existence of them once Islam does no
exist now what does it mean these
pillars existing in one's faith
theoretically and practically speaking
from a theoretical standpoint if anyone
is to deny in belief any of these five
pillars and would take them outside the
fold of Islam so anyone denies that I
don't need to say the Shahada to become
Muslim anyone that denies that hey it's
not a big deal if I pray five times a
day or I don't have to pray five times a
day someone who says the same about
day someone who says the same abou
Ramadan someone who says the same about
Ramadan someone who says the same abou
the can some someone that says the same
about touch so from a theoretical
standpoint to deny any of these to have
doubt about the obligation out of any of
these can take a person outside the
folder with slab and you not can it does
take a person outside the fold of Islam
that's from a theoretical standpoint
that's from a theoretical standpoin
from a practical standpoint as a
completely different case so where there
is agreement is that everyone will agree
upon the Shahada and the saying of the
Shahada that's um that's unanimous
so whether it's practic
or theoretically denying of the Shahadah
are not saying that Shahada
there is no Muslim for that individual
and then what is also an agreement is
that someone who falls short in fasting
someone who falls short in giving their
zakat and someone who falls short in
going for Hajj
there's also agreement that someone who
falls short in not doing those aspects
he will be someone was falling into a
major sin but it's still within the fold
of Islam he is still within the fold of
Islam so this is the major the life in
terms of what took place those three
opinions number one is that you are a
major sinner but still within the fold
of Islam then regardless of whether is
laziness or not laziness then opinion
number two is that they differentiated
between the loved one who left office
Allah altogether as opposed to one who
left it off in a state of laziness and
in opinion number three again they
didn't differentiate but went to the
exact opposite site and that opposite
side being that you left the fold of
Islam whether it was intentionally or
unintentionally and all sides have their
proofs all sides have their proofs but
proofs all sides have their proofs bu
what is a really solid proof for the
humbly method and this is something very
important to consider regardless of
where you stand on this difference of
opinion is that abdullah bin sheikh
abdullah bin shakyck from the you know
imams of the tabi reign he says that the
Sahaba of the allahu anhum did not
Sahaba of the allahu anhum did no
consider any act of abandonment to be an
act of Cofer other than saleh the Sahaba
radiyallahu anhum did not consider any
act of abandonment as an act of Cofer
other than the summer so it shows you
the great you know station that Salah
has in Islam and one of the great you
know inshallah Allah blesses us all to
read the Arabic language one day there
is a famous book called team
pas de la sala you know the greatness of
the station of salah in islam is written
by one of the great imams of the the son
of by the name of imam al-mahdi
and he compiles you know the this
discussion from beginning to end in
terms of what was the position of the
imams of the son of and the Imams of the
Sahaba in terms of the state of Salah
and the issue of Salah and he discusses
it quite thoroughly and it's a very
interesting discussion to see where he
stood on this not only on the Salah
itself
in terms of some of the other are kind
of Islam as well so one of the clear
things you see that abu bakr radiallahu
anhu he considered the act of
abandonment of this zakah to be an act
abandonment of this zakah to be an ac
of disbelief as well and this is why he
had the whole of Orinda right the
battles of apostasy that the people who
did not want to give their zakah and
they used to give zakat during the time
of the prophets enough he fought the he
fought them out of a state of apostasy
the significance of this hadith the
significance of this hadith the
significance of the hadith of the five
pillars of Islam is a person is able to
tell what is the absolute borderline
what is the absolute borderline where he
is on the verge of crossing into
disbelief and this is why the messenger
of allah salallahu alaihe salam spends
the time to explain what the five
pillars of islam are because if you're
just struggling with the five pillars
then it is feared that a person will
fall into a state of disbelief and you
want to as a believer build upon each of
these pillars to the next level so in
terms of the Shahada the next level of
the Shahada
is making sure that you understand the
detailed evidences for all of these
things the Salah is that rather than
just focusing on the four eyed and to
the the you know the obligatory Salah
you want to make sure that your a level
where you're playing your sin and you're
praying your knuckle when it comes to
zakah so not only should you be paying
your Zeca on time but you're giving out
your Zeca on time but you're giving ou
sadaqa as well and you're lending out
sadaqa as well and you're lending ou
money to people as well a lot of people
don't know this but for every amount of
money that you lend out to a person then
it's as if you give half of that amount
it's as if you give half of that amoun
in sadaqa it's as if you gave half of
that amount in sadaqa so it's a level
you know that is just below giving
sadaqa where you lend money out to
people that even though you're getting
it back where you have the intention to
receive it back just the fact that
receive it back just the fact tha
you're lending it out to someone helping
someone in their time of need
it's as if you gave half of that amount
it's as if you gave half of that amoun
in sadaqa so that is in terms of zakah
in terms of the Roma Bahn you know
Ramadan is obligatory to fast we're just
Ramadan is obligatory to fast we're jus
fasting in Ramadan itself try to do
Mondays and Thursdays if you can't do
Mondays and Thursdays try to do you know
three days out of the week you can't do
that to try to do three days
sorry three days either month you can't
sorry three days either month you can'
do that you know try to make sure you at
do that you know try to make sure you a
least you're doing Muharram you're doing
Ashura and you know the day of Arafah so
always finding something more than just
always finding something more than jus
the obligatory to do the same thing for
Hajj you know Allah subhanAllah sana may
not give all of us an opportunity to go
for Hajj but that doesn't mean that we
shouldn't strive to go for ombres as
well so that is the absolute minimum and
as a believer you want to try to build
on top of that to attain your faith and
then you have a question on this this
let me finish the last hadith and we'll
open up for questions and the very last
open up for questions and the very las
hadith is hadith number 5 which is the
hadith of I shall Allah on her where she
says that whoever introduces into this
religion of ours that which is not from
it shall have it rejected and this shows
us the second condition of the
acceptance of good deeds which the first
acceptance of good deeds which the firs
is intention and the second is that
is intention and the second is tha
every action that we do it has to be in
accordance to the Sunnah of the
messenger of allah salla allahu allahu
allah if it was not sanctioned by the
messenger of allah sallallahu and he
will send them then this deed will not
will send them then this deed will no
be accepted by Allah Subhanahu WA Ta'ala
and you have many many statements of the
Sahaba from them even Omar the LA idol
he says stay away from innovation even
if the people consider it to be good and
Abdullah - Oh Dada la I know saying
stick to the methodology of the Sahaba
practice would they practice and stopped
where they stopped and don't go beyond
that and don't go beyond that so this
shows us the importance of having a
sound methodology and worshipping Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala where one is sincere
and one follows the example of the
Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam and
the consensus of the Companions not
the consensus of the Companions no
individual opinions of the Companions
but the consensus of the Companions and
that is the methodology that we are
meant to develop in worshipping Allah
Subhanahu WA Ta'ala will conclude with
that Surpanakha lahore bahaminy ashhadu
an la illaha night I snuck over to Blake
you
\n